Dr. Gammon, could you give me your full name and
date and place of birth? That's easy. Full name.
First name, Samuel. Sam for short. Ray, R-H-E-A.
You try to spell that Ray, you get into trouble
ordinarily. What happened was, originally, that
was R-E-A when that branch of family lived in
Scotland. Well they got in some kind of a religious
row up there as the Scots are always doing and they
finally moved over to Ireland and that's where
they picked up the H in R-H-E-A.
And when were you born? 1889, 26 November. And
place of birth? Southwest Virginia, county with
W-Y-T-H-E named for old man George who signed the
Declaration of Independence. I see. Near any
particular community or was this a farm or a...
Small town, about possibly a thousand people at
most. I see. Tom's name was Rural Retreat. Rural
Retreat. Just off of the main highway which goes
north of us for about a mile and can be so named that
in making the long jaunt for that day, 40 miles or
so, between Wytheville, the county seat of our
county, and Marion, the county seat of the next
adjoining, Smith County. When they got overtaken
by bad roads and couldn't make it, they pulled off
the main highway for about a mile to the south to
this little settlement that came to be called
Rural Retreat. It's a very pleasant name. Been
that ever since. In fact, it's on the northern one.
on the Norfolk and Western, so labeled on the
railroad decision right now. May I speak? Sir, go
ahead. A friend, a cousin of ours, told him that he
wouldn't for anything live in the town that
sounded as though you were gargling when you gave
the name. Oh my goodness. Could I have your full
name, Mrs. Gammon, and your date, and place of
birth? Ellen. Ellen? Yeah, L-E-N. Uh, maiden name
R-O-T-H-E. Rothy? Rothy. Of Danish. Danish
extraction. Which I'm proud of. Her father and
mother were both born in Denmark and at different
times came over here and us went to marry them. I
see. Yes, father came over because he was a child of
old age and uh, He had very few connections. And it
almost takes, in one of those countries over
there, it almost takes a pool to get somewhere. And
so he did get somewhere, but he thought he'd have a
better opportunity and had friends over here. And
so he came here. And he was a distant, distant,
distant cousin of my mother's. My mother was tired
of the small town young men who were courting her,
and she wanted to get away. And she read the remark,
oh, if I only knew anyone in America. And an elderly
cousin of hers said, why, you do, you know, the
Henrietta, or Yetta, as they called her, Rothi, or
Rothi, as they said in Denmark, with a R down there
in the throat. And so Mother wrote to this
Henrietta Rothi, And she, elderly, did not
answer, but had her son answer. And so my father
answered. And after a correspondence of a couple
of years, during which period, he sent mother,
what was that old? A couple of old monthly
magazines. Century, I believe, is one. And
another one. And mother had read a good bit of
Shakespeare before she ever came over here, which
you can't say for a good many of the people out there
in it. And it wasn't that nasty. But that's true.
And so after some months, I would say about four
months, they decided to marry. And they were a
very, very happy couple, weren't they Ray? Yes,
they were. Dr. Gammon has often called my father a
saint. But he didn't look saintly. He was
well-built and always smiling. But the Danes are
like that, too. They smile a lot. You remember?
Yeah. Where were you born? I was born in Chicago,
and I don't like it a bit. But I couldn't help it. My
parents were there. And your birthday? June 5,
1989. I'm a few months older than Ray, so I'm
bossing him now. Dr. Gamow, do you remember
anything from your childhood that stands out in
your mind that might be of interest to you? Yes, I
think that I remember best when my father, knowing
that it was part of Mother's plan. Mother died when
I was only six years old. And part of her plan was
that I should have a Shetland pony. And he
proceeded to get me one. And I thought quite a lot of
that pony, who did most everything to me that he
shouldn't have done. He bit me once and kicked me
once and threw me several times. Oh, my goodness.
His name was Sheik, S-H-E-I-K. He came from the
Sunnyside Pony Farm, Monmouth, Illinois. I still
remember that. That's amazing. And where did you
two meet? Beg your pardon? Where did you and your
wife meet? In Baltimore. In Baltimore. Johns
Hopkins Library. And the library. She was a
librarian. Oh, my goodness. I said a library
assistant is the correct name. When I often say
that I thought a great deal of Johns Hopkins and the
value of that library. And when I left, I knew I
couldn't take the library, so I took the librarian
as the next best bet. We were married. We were
married. He used to say, I corralled him there. And
I said, you didn't run very fast, so he changed it to
say that he wanted to take the books, but he
couldn't, so he took the librarian. I think he got
cheated on that. Could you tell us about your
education, say, beginning with when you first
started formal schooling and, say, bringing it on
to your Ph.D.? Small country high school. Where,
in Virginia? Virginia. In Virginia? Yes. Rural
Retreat High School. Still doing business, the
old stand. Though I think it's deteriorated a good
deal. That's my private opinion, but that doesn't
count. That's your age, that's that. Being an old
man isn't what it used to be, I'd say.
And then did you go on to college immediately after
high school? After high school, I went straight to
Washington League University at Lexington,
Virginia. And that town of Lexington is steeped in
the reputation and lore and prestige of great men.
Robert Edward Lee, President of Washington Lee
for five years. Stonewall Jackson is buried
there. And you can't, well you can't tell those
Lexingtonians very much about the Civil War or any
of those fellas. Oh my. You've got your... Lee is
buried there on the campus in the Memorial Chapel,
which he built while he was president. The
mausoleum, where he and most of his family are
buried right now, have been for years, is there on
the campus. It's a very beautiful crypt there. And
you were there for four years? Five. Five. Not
because I flunked, but because I got smart. and
crammed, loaded on, took my A.B. in three years. By
the time I got through I wasn't so well satisfied
with what I was getting out of it and so I took two
more easy years for a master's degree. I think I got
more out of those last two than I did out of the first
three. You will note he didn't have to take the five
years. He elected to take them and could have
gotten through with an A.B. in The three years, but
he loaded too much. And what were your specialties
in history then? Your favorites. I think I liked
possibly best, of course American history was
always a favorite of mine. As a youngster I read a
great deal and my father with an eye on that saw that
I had plenty of books. I remember one Christmas I
got 11 books a set of three, Plutarch's Lives and
numerous others. My
fondness for reading gave me a slant in the
direction of history very naturally. Then you
went from Washington and Lee to Johns Hopkins or
was there an interval? No, after I finished in
Lexington at Washington and Lee I wanted to look
around a bit. I wanted to think a bit of what I was
going to do next. I thought I wanted to teach. So I
took, I waited for a while and in that while I took
two years of teaching high school teaching. Where
were you teaching then? At Austin College. At
Austin College, yes, up here at Sherman. Because
an old friend of my family The man under whom I got my
start in Greek was head of the Latin Greek
department at Austin College and it was through
his influence that I got the history department
there at Austin College where I went in fall of
1922. No. Earlier.
Because we were married in 1918.
You must have gone there in 12. Mm-mm. No, no. I was
still in Washington, D.C. in 12. Well, then you had
two there before you came to Hopkins. And Hopkins
was 1912 is when you came to Hopkins. Because you
were there 13, 14, 15, 16. No, 1912 to Hopkins.
1913. Because you were there five years and then.
Yes, that probably was. Yes. And then on to John
Hopkins then? Or let's see. Yes, actor Sherman.
Right. Yep. After prep school in there at Sherman
College. It was called Austin College in Sherman,
but they had a prep department, and that is why Dr.
Gammon said high school, but it was really better
than high school. That was a Presbyterian school,
right? It is. Yes. Still is. Now, what made you
decide to go back and work for a Ph.D.? Well, if you
were going, I could see easily enough. But if you
were going to get ahead in the teaching
profession, you had to have more than an M.A. M.A.s
were just common speed tracks, so to speak. Good
M.A.s at that then.
And how long did you spend at Johns Hopkins?
I can tell you that. It would be about four years.
No, it was there the total of five years. Wait a
minute. You came in 19... Did you come there in
1913? No, I came there in 1913. Oh, that's what
we're... Oh, my. We're living in the present, you
see. So that's why we're a little hazy right in
there. But he had been there three years and then
went off to... This First World War, as we called it
now, as we call it now, it was the war. But now it's
the First World War. And he then got up to his first
lieutenancy. And then we were married at that
time, when he was just a second Louis. And then he
came back after the war was over in his discharge as
a first lieutenant. and finished the two years to
get his PhD degree. See, I was watching then, so
that's why I know it so well. Where did you do most of
your military service? At Camp Lee. Camp Lee in
Virginia. At Camp Hancock. I was regimental
personnel agent at Camp Hancock, Georgia. But you
were at Washington, over in Washington that day.
During the first two years of the war. That's where
you got lieutenancy. over in Washington, what was
the name of the place in Washington? Because you
used to commute and come over to court me. So what's
the name of the place? Oh, that camp, Camp Lee, just
outside of. No, that's Petersburg. Wait a minute,
wait a minute.
Anyway, it's called Fort something now. And right
outside of Washington, everybody knows the
place. We can't remember. And then he was caught at
me right in there. While he was there, it was just a,
what, a 40-minute ride by train? And officers
counted the days. That's it. We were encouraged to
light out at noon on Saturdays and not show up again
the Monday. And I'd grab the next train to
Baltimore.
And then he came back. Then he was sent to Camp Lee.
which was not too far away from Baltimore either.
So you see, the fates were against him and with me,
as you see. And he could come up there, but not quite
as often. And then he got sent to Camp Hancock down
at a bus to Georgia. And that was impossible, so he
got too lonesome. And I didn't like him being
lonesome, so I decided that it was all right. He
asked me, of course. to marry him. So I thought it
was all right. I didn't want him to be lonesome. I
think that's why I married you. Come to think of it.
Yes, Ellen came down on a train from Washington to
Augusta. I met the train. And we went from there to
the Presbyterian manse. And we were married by Dr.
Joe Sevier, Presbyterian minister for the First
Church in Houston. First Church in Augusta, I
mean. That's over, oh, they hopped out there, if
you remember. And you finished your Ph.D. in 1921?
No. 1980, 1918?
Finished his Ph.D.? 22 was the grade who you find
listed in the Hopkins catalog, I think. 22. Oh,
well, that's because it was... 1922. Well, yes,
because...
was finished then. You know, I said, first he came.
I don't know why we're so hazy about that period.
Too long ago. That's right. No. No. He was there for
three years, I think. And then the war came. And
that kept him away for two years. And during that
period, we were married. And then he came back. And
in 22, he got his PhD with that dissertation. which
is now being republished. Then you went from there
back to Austin College again after you got your
PhD? To the Collegiate Department. Yes. I had a
little experience before that at Austin College
as assistant to the principal of the prep
department. But this time they'd had a sample of me
and thought they could stand it so they made me head
of the history department, history and
government. Did you simply, how did you go about
getting that job again? Did you, after you
finished your PhD, did you write them or write your
friends that were still there? Oh, no. My friend
was there on the job all the time. He was head of the
Latin Greek department. And the president also
knew the family. See, they all came through that
little plateau. The president of Austin College
then had his degree from King College of Bristol,
Tennessee. From Kingsport. Which is next door to
us. And
you were, how long were you at Austin College?
Four. Four years. Four years. Came down here from
there. And how did you go about coming, how did it
happen that you came to A&M? Oh, better.
Well, they'd had a sample of me and thought they
could stand it. No, that was Austin College, but
here. Here at A&M. How did you find out about... He
didn't. He didn't. No, people that had degrees...
or of any account, good degrees, don't go
scrambling around for jobs. They offered jobs.
I'll tell you how that was. Charles E. Friley was
dean of the School of Arts and Sciences here at A&M.
And it was through him. They came looking for you?
He wrote to Hopkins, to various colleges, because
he wanted a PhD. Wanted a good PhD. Yes, and so he got
led to him. We were in Virginia at the time for a
week. But in the summer, of course, summers, quite
a few years. And what did you do when you first came
to A&M? Were you open to the position? Same thing I
would still be doing if I were not retired. Head of
History Department. You were hired as the head of
the department. Oh, yes. I wouldn't have taken
anything less. Yes, I understand. Because I was
still a big boy up at Austin College. I see. And can
you describe your... First impressions,
earliest impressions of the campus when you came
and of the department? I'm too busy. I was quite
adjustable, adaptable as taking in a new
situation and it fitted how I was on the campus, our
contacts, and the fact that Friday as dean of the
School of Arts and Sciences gave me practically a
free hand in organizing and offering the course
that I thought the Department of History should
have. So you made some changes when you came? Not
very radical. I added some courses mostly. Gave it
a little broader reach. Can you think of some of
those that you added that you thought were
necessary to the curriculum then? Oh, I couldn't
do that without a catalog. Oh, I see. That's all
right. I think
I've been out of touch with it too long now. Know it
as well as I once did. Mrs. Gammon,
you were talking a moment ago about your
impressions, some of the first impressions of the
campus. Could you tell us a little bit about those?
I didn't get that. Please. Could you tell us about
your first impressions of the campus? Yeah, at the
campus here? Yes, at the campus here at A&M. Your
first impressions. You said it was friendly.
Could you? Well, we've spent practically all our
lives at educational institutions. So I didn't
think this was wonderful, nor did I think it was
nothing. I just took it for granted that it was like
other colleges and universities, Johns Hopkins
Universities and so on. And we were rather pleased
to be given a house right on the campus, both
because of seniority and because, no not
seniority, you didn't have any seniority then,
but because of his position. He was, the heads of
departments had first choice, you see, and then
professors and so on. And as the seniority
counted, too, you see. Because once you got a
house, you couldn't be pushed out of it. And so we
had that house that was painted green. All the
others were white. And it stood opposite the, it
stood where the parking lot now is for the Raleigh,
whatever you call it. Yes, right? Opposite there.
Even the driveway that was the remains of an old
road, we used it as a driveway to our garage. It was
the remains of an old road. I don't know which one.
But long ago. And probably before the college was
starting. It was a college then. And it was rather
pleasant to be right close on the campus. And those
living on the campus had a certain prestige, too.
So I didn't know that, but I see that now. And it was,
we used the old college, what is now College Road.
That was the only way into town. This Texas Avenue
was just a muddy road. And we never used it. We went
out by Westgate rather than by Eastgate. And many
people didn't have cars when they came, but we did.
We had bought a car up in Sherman and drove down here
with our two boys. And
it was very pleasant to be on the campus because, as
I said before, the people were very welcoming. We
didn't get hazed or beaten or anything like that
because that system was in full swing when we came.
And one might say right in there that that was one of
the drawbacks. And they had it for quite a while,
changing commandants and so on to get control of
this. I think it is all right now, especially since
the women got in. So there. You're talking about
the students hazing. The students? Yes, when you
were talking about nobody, you said something
about nobody beat you or anything. Oh, no. We
weren't hazed. No, it was just, I'm just taking
off. Oh, I see. The student habit of hazing people.
I couldn't imagine them hazing the faculty. No,
they were the most welcoming, and we were not hazed
in any way or made to feel new or anything like that.
No, I was just poking a little fun at the hazing
system. And I can't call it anything but the hazing
system. Once in a while. Which lasted quite a long
time and was a trouble to the administration. Now,
it didn't affect the other administrators. That
is, heads of departments were also
administrative. What were your impressions of
the students that you taught, Dr. Gammon? Put the
marks around the mind, nothing very new about the
type of preparation. Well, they were-. You didn't
find them tremendously different from any that
you'd ever taught before? Because I'd had four
year sampling of them at Austin College. I thought
maybe since you had been in the East you might have
found them less well prepared or their
backgrounds were not as good. Well, I think I would
make that as one of my impressions when I was first
at Austin College. that you got perhaps less
well-prepared high school products. But I make
that rather hesitantly. I would think that might
have been a drawback because of the Texas rural
school system at that time. Students had missed
probably a lot.
I think it was a drawback to the students. Oh, yes,
ma'am. Not a drawback to the teachers, except that
they had to work harder. to put it through the
skulls. And, of course, here it was a school or
college planned for a state college with cheaper
tuition and so on. And up in Austin College was a
Presbyterian school, and Presbyterians are
known to be pretty well educated, at least their
ministry is, and we're Presbyterians. There. Who
were some of the people who you were most closely
associated with and remember most favorably in
the early years? All of them. All of them. Up there?
Here, up there. Here, after we moved down here.
Mostly
the Presbyterian group. Yes, I think you're
right. Oh, our neighbors. A few names. Tell me
their names, if you can. Name some of them. I can do
that, I believe, better because I think women are
more socially inclined. I know that the Hedges, he
was head of the chemistry department, lived right
across the street from us. And when we went to town
or anyplace else, we'd go out our back door because
we lived on corners. And when Mrs. Hughes and I saw
each other in town, we'd embrace just for fun
because we... Didn't see each other because we
went out the back way. But Ray helped Dr. Hedges
when he had come. He limped. And he had been away for
some surgery, perhaps. But anyway, some
attention. And Ray met him and took him back to the
campus. So we knew them pretty well. We knew the
Seekies pretty well, Mr. Seekie. He was a
forester, a state forester, . And I think you will
find a good bit of records about him. We were, of
course, close to them. We had young children, and
they had an older boy who had retired. did very,
very well in his line of work and retired early in
Slimington Street. And then the people next door.
And Mrs. Hughes was giving a party. And I remember
she had a rooster she was going to make big, because
it was a salad. Chicken salad. Chicken salad,
rooster salad. And it got away from her and her
black coat. And they were going around the house
chasing it. And meanwhile, we had a dog. A fox
terrier. A terrier. had adopted us. We didn't seek
him, just like we didn't seek this job here. It came
to us. And so Dr. Gammon said, stranger, get him.
And a stranger. We called him a stranger, because
he came to us. And so we just called him a stranger.
And he loved us very much, and we him. And so he
chased after the rooster, and just pinned the
rooster down. But that's what he was. He had him by
one wing, and that was it. But Mrs. Hughes doesn't
remember that. She is, as I said, she just got her
mind on a few things. And let me see who else. Oh,
next door to them were the Reeds, which they were,
we were at the same church, so we were pretty close
there. Then the other direction, next to the
Seakeys, was the Leland's.
Leland, Leland. And their boy and our boy played
together. Back of those two doors lived Dean
Bolton. And he had a young son and older children
who was practically a sidekick of our children.
And Mrs. Bolton once said to me, she knew
everything that happened in our house because she
would hear it through Preston. And she said,
you've got an Encyclopedia Britannica. That was
the 1930 edition, I guess. And when our children
would play, if there'd be some subject come up that
should be questioned, as for instance, George
Washington telephoning to his lieutenants and
captain, I think it was Samory that said, or Billy
that said, telephoning wasn't invented. Preston
said. Yes, it was so. And so whoever it was, which of
our two children, shot in and looked up in the
inside computer. We did not buy the book of
knowledge and those other infantile things. We
gave them things that they'd have to work for to get
their information. And so he really convinced his
playmate. Now, that's another family. Let's see,
then there were the, we didn't know them too much,
the Nuck Walkers. And let's see, near them lived
the Come and Dance. We got to be quite friendly, I
especially, with the Come and Dance wives. I know
they came to see us when they came back to college.
Two of them did. And we had lost our older son then,
and they remembered that. And let's see who else.
Oh, of course, on the other end of the campus, we
knew the Humberts very well. In fact, Humbert was
quite influential in getting our son out of the
State Department a Rotary Fellowship. And I
always thought he came to us once, Dr. Humbert, and
asked us, is there anything special you can tell us
about Sam Ray? He was called Sam Ray then.
combination of the two names. And is there
anything special you can tell him as a son? I said,
why, yes. After we lost our son, our elder son, his
brother, his elder brother, he wrote to us every
day. That's exactly what I wanted to know, said Dr.
Humbert. And of course, that sort of settled it. I
always told the Rotarians that they went around
acting as though he was their son, and we were just
an institution. So now, let me see. And at the other
end of the campus, beside the Humberts, there
were, let's see, who do we know over there? There
was Cassians. The Cassians. SPEAKER 1. Cassians
was head of the YMCA for a long time. SPEAKER 2. Yes,
he was the YMCA director, and had been at Austin
College. So Ray had some. SPEAKER 1. I had a finger
in the pie getting him down here. influence in
putting in a good word for him here. He was very much
beloved. He was a very genial sort of person. Died
in 52. They, I suppose, were our closest friends,
because we were Presbyterians together. We'd
been to Austin College together. And our
children, though hers, theirs, were younger.
Mason Lee Cashin is the younger of that. And he is
quite prominent. He married Dr. Walton's, no wait
a minute, Dr. Walton's granddaughter, Ethel
Walton Burgess's daughter, who is now the second
Mrs. Cashin. Let me see, who else was over there? Of
course the Marshes. He was our doctor, Dr. J.E.
Marsh. J.E. Marsh, that's right. He has a son who is
Jack Marsh in practicing here, but he had died, but
I think Mrs. Marsh is still living. Who else? I have
to think about the camels. The camels were, he was
head of the modern language. And oh, I forgot this.
Some, he had a corner from us, the head of the
English department. And we became very good
friends. And when we moved out here, they put us off
the campus so they could grow. and put so many other
buildings on the places where we lived. They came
and told you, you just have to move, right? Oh,
yeah. Yeah, yeah, we just had to. They gave us a
little warning. They didn't kick us out. No, we
didn't hear them, Lord. They gave us, I think it was
almost two years, because the semi's built down
here, just on the next street. And they were about,
let's see, 91, about nine years older than we, no?
Five, six, seven, eight years older, I think I
figured out. And they have both died. They were
also from Virginia. So you see, we had so much in
common with them. I don't know why I didn't mention
them first. Then there were people in the
experiment station, especially, bless their
souls, the Sherwoods lived off on the road Jones
Bridge, it was a Jones Bridge road they lived on, or
the other road. They went out to the experiment
station, the farms out there. But she was a great
mixer, and we were very fond of them. They died too
early in 57, 58. He
died in 58, January 58, like the Harold Neckard.
And she later. But they left. It doesn't pay to
leave a place where you've lived a long time.
Remember that, young man. If you've settled down a
long time in one place, your roots are so
established, and your whole life is sort of woven
in with the life of the community, that you unravel
the fabric if you move. We've seen a lot of that. And
you'll lessen your roots if you're uprooted.
Because we have seen many that have moved away and
haven't lived long after that. Now, whether
there's any medical connection or whether
anybody would agree with me, there must be a
psychological sort of influence. And so even
though Delta Gamma had a good bit of property up
there with County Virginia and in Smith County,
And we have always thought of going back to
Virginia, even though we expected to freeze to
death every winter. The summers are glorious.
Yes. Virginia is the southwestern part, and the
altitude is around 3,000 feet. You get sure enough
winter there. You're high up. I spent four years in
Norfolk, Virginia. Oh, Norfolk? That's a little
more than sea level. But we would go over there. I
spent my weekends in Williamsburg, and I enjoyed
Williamsburg. Oh, Williamsburg. That's
different. I had to live in Norfolk because that's
where I was in the service. I didn't like Norfolk,
but the rest of the state was beautiful,
absolutely beautiful. Especially the
southwest. Our section is the prettiest part of
Virginia, right through there. And that's where
they, what's the name of that highway? No, Blue
Ridge, the new scenic. road that runs down to
Skyline Drive. And that's very near to us. But it
deflects down into North Carolina a little before
it gets to us up there. So we had always been in there
with a family. And we would be near my family, who
lived in the east. And coming back to noticing. the
difference in the education of the young here that
Eastern schools were better. We could see that. I
could see it in all sorts of small ways. Nothing you
really could put your finger on, but in small ways.
I noticed it myself. I was born in Chicago, that
place. And when I came, when my family moved east to
Baltimore,
I had a hard time in, of all things, mathematics.
And now I'm doing the IRS for the family, which is
sometimes pretty complicated. So I remember that
as a fact. And let's see, we were talking about
friends on the campus. Oh yeah, you used to play
golf with Dr. Walton, with President Walton. Was
it Richard? Once in a while. Duncan was head of
subsistence. And Duncan Hall had been named for
him. Well, we knew them very well. They lived over
on the other end of the campus.
Could you give me some personal remembrances of
Dr. Walton? Personality? Anything interesting?
Or humorous? Or? I would say he was, he was genial,
friendly,
with something of a sense of humor. And he was
insistent that we were one family. That's good.
You see, and we . That's the thing I remember sort of
permeating his way. Otherwise, I don't, I can't
think of anything bad to say about him. No, I'm not
looking for anything bad. No. Mrs. Walton was
lovely. I've never heard one word, even
implication, against her. She died not very long
ago. And, well, not very long ago, it's been four or
five years. And they... Let's see. I think on the
whole, now there were several people, as I said,
without any degrees at all teaching here. You see?
There was less, in a way, than that academic
college of insurance. And Mrs. Humbert, whom I
mentioned, I mentioned the Humberts a while ago,
said, you will find this will be different. This is
an agricultural state college. You'll find a
difference from her experience. You'll see she
was speaking. But I remember that so definitely.
And it was, but nothing to bother one. We were busy,
young parents, working hard in the department,
working hard at home. We were too busy to talk about
things. We had two boys in the local school. Yes, it
consolidated. sent them to Bryan later for high
school because they gave Latin in there. And it had
a large curriculum. And we wanted ours to have a
Latin background. And they had somebody, Mrs.
Spriggs, Mrs. Rose Spriggs. I think she's not so
well. She taught Latin to the group, to a few of the
students. out at Consolidated High School, which
was right three, oh, it was a block, two blocks from
our home. So that was wonderful, you see. It was
located on the campus then? Oh, Consolidated, oh,
yes. Do you remember, was it here when you came
here? Oh, yes. It was already here then. Oh, yes.
Billy was in kindergarten then, but he started
right in there. Both of them went through grade
school there. And it was two blocks from us. Let's
see, the Williamses, we knew the Earl Williamses,
too. He was head of mechanical education? No.
Industrial, I think. What is industrial
education? Industrial education, that's right.
And Jane Williams, we knew. They lived right back,
practically in our backyard. We knew them very
well. Jane especially. Jane died just a few months
ago, Jane Williames. We were always doctor or
mister and missus in those days. But before we ever
left the campus, it was Ellen and Ray and Helen and
Frank, the Frank Andersons. I forgot to mention
them. Frank Anderson, he has a son who's an
ophthalmologist. We knew him as a little
red-headed boy before he was born. And but they
are, they're lovely people. We knew them very
well, too. And they moved over in the Siki house
when the Sikis moved into Quality Row. They had a
street back of our street that was called Quality
Row, in a popular parlance. Am I speaking right?
And it just, none of our streets had names. But they
called that place Quality Row. Because here were
the Boltons. And the Waltons lived in the big
president's house, which burned down and has been
rebuilt. But on Quality Road lived Big Comandant,
who was always an army officer, colonel, and Dean,
as he was then, Dean Bolton. We always called him
Dean Bolton, though later he became president. We
always called him Dean Bolton. And the forester,
his forester, they moved over. She moved over
there. She won't be on Quality Road. And that's all
right, too. She was right cute. She said when he
retired, her health was not good for many years.
And they made several tries to get away from this
place. They moved out to the West Coast to see how
they liked that. That's where they had started and
liked it. And then she said when they came back,
nobody knew Paul there, their son. And I could
understand that. They also tried to go up to
Nebraska, their home state. And they didn't like
the way the people they hired to help them. They
wanted to sit down at the table and eat with them and
play bridge with them and have all the company help
the dishes. I remember Alice Siki saying that. She
had quite a sense of humor, this persistent sort of
humor, rather than specific jokes or specific
points of humor. She said, when he retired, she
said, he is retired. I'm just tired. So I have
quoted her to many, many people. But I have always
given credit to her and to those who knew her. And
others, I have always said.